CNS-785-epoch-storage-module-readme (#1088)
lavanet/lava: x/epochstorage/README.md

# `x/epochstorage`

## Abstract

This document specifies the epochstorage module of Lava Protocol.

Lava blocks are divided into bulk of blocks called epochs. epoch length is defines as a parameter of the module.

> The module keeps track of the epochs in memory, epochs that needs to be deleted and anchering data to each epoch, mainly providers stakes.

Reviewer: needs -> need
and what is "anchering"? do you mean anchoring?
and note -> Note (sentence start)
will take effect -> will be applied

Author: done

note that the module will make sure that any changes will take effect only in the next epoch.

## Contents
* [Concepts](#concepts)
  * [Epoch](#epoch)
    * [EpochDetails](#epochdetails)
  * [FixatedParams](#fixatedparams)
  * [StakeStorage](#stakeStorage)
  * [StakeEntry](#stakeentry)
* [Parameters](#parameters)
* [Queries](#queries)
* [Transactions](#transactions)
* [Proposals](#proposals)
* [Events](#events)

## Concepts

### Epoch

> Epoch is defined as a batch of blocks, for each epoch all the data that affects pairing stays the same. for example: all the providers and their data are the same for all the blocks of the epochs and can be changed only in the next epoch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An epoch is defined as a batch of blocks. Within each epoch, the data that influences pairing remains constant. For instance, the providers and their data remain unchanged across all blocks within the epoch. Data can only be modified in the subsequent epoch.
```

#### EpochDetails

This object shows the details of the current epoch, the last epoch in memory and the last deleted epochs.

```go
type EpochDetails struct {
	StartBlock    uint64   // start of the current epoch
	EarliestStart uint64   // earliest epoch that is saved on memory
	DeletedEpochs []uint64 // list of deleted epochs (updates each epoch)
}
```

### FixatedParams

> Some params on the chain can affect the pairing list results, since pairing list needs to be the same throughout the epoch, the chain saves the needed params per epoch. this is done with fixated params. each module with a param that affects the pairing list needs to register the param as a fixated param using the following method of the keeper:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some parameters on the chain can affect the results of the pairing list. Since the pairing list needs to remain the same throughout the epoch, the chain saves the necessary parameters for each epoch. This is achieved through fixated parameters. Each module with a parameter that affects the pairing list should register the parameter as a fixated parameter using the following method of the keeper:
```

```go
AddFixationRegistry(fixationKey string, getParamFunction func(sdk.Context) any) 
```

> by doing so the module will know to track [param change proposals](../spec/proposal_handler.go) and save any changes of the relevant param as a fixated param on the store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By doing this, the module will be able to track [param change proposals](../spec/proposal_handler.go) and save any changes to the relevant param as a fixated param in the store. The fixated param is responsible for keeping track of param changes, saving different versions if they are registered, and deleting old versions when they are no longer needed (as determined by the EpochsToSave parameter).
```

fixated param is in charge of tracking param changes, save their different versions if they are registered and delete old versions when they are not needed anymore (determined by EpochsToSave parameter).

> a fixation parameter is saved on store as:

Reviewer: a -> A

Author: done

```go

type FixatedParams struct {
	Index         string // the index of the param
	Parameter     []byte // serialized data of the param
	FixationBlock uint64 // the block at which the param has changed
}
```

> this is done in the [begin block of the module](keeper/fixated_params.go)

Reviewer: this -> This
begin block -> BeginBlock method

Author: done

### StakeStorage

StakeStorage is an object that is saved on the store per epoch. it contains the list of all the providers that are available in this epoch per chainID.

```go
type StakeStorage struct {
	Index          string       // index of the stake storage (epoch + chainid)
	StakeEntries   []StakeEntry // list of providers stake
	EpochBlockHash []byte       // the block hash of the of the epoch block (used as salt for pairing)
}
```

> the index of the stakestorage is constructed from the epoch and chainID, for example: "100 ETH1"

Reviewer: Check all sentences for capital letters on sentence start

Author: done

> when a provider stakes himself to a chain (using the pairing module) he will be in the providers list of the next epoch. the stake storage of the next epoch (e.g. current stakestorage) is where all the changes are registered.

Reviewer: himself -> itself, he -> it (use non-gendered language)

Author: done

> when a new epoch starts, the module will create a copy of the current stake and save it as a specific epoch stake storage. this is done in the begin block of the module.

Reviewer: begin block -> BeginBlock method

Author: done

also, when a new epoch starts the epoch storage will delete any outdated stakestorage (determined by the param EpochsToSave).

> note that if a stakestorage does not exist (either if it was deleted or it is in the future) pairing, verify pairing and relay payments will fail for the requested epoch (look at pairing readme).

Reviewer: this sentence seems broken: "note that if a stakestorage does not exist (...) pairing" ??

Author: done

Reviewer: instead of writing there "verify pairing" write "pairing verification"

Author: verify pairing is the correct term

### StakeEntry

The stake entry is a struct that contains all the information of a provider.

```go
type StakeEntry struct {
	Stake              types.Coin // the providers stake amount (self delegation)
	Address            string     // the lava address of the provider
	StakeAppliedBlock  uint64     // the block at which the provider is included in the pairing list
	Endpoints          []Endpoint // the endpoints of the provider
	Geolocation        int32      // the geolocation this provider supports
	Chain              string     // the chainID of the provider
	Moniker            string     // free string description
	DelegateTotal      types.Coin // total delegation to the provider (without self delegation)
	DelegateLimit      types.Coin // delegation total limit
	DelegateCommission uint64     // commision from delegation rewards
}
```

Geolocation are bit flags that indicate all the geolocations that the provider supports, this is the sum of all endpoints geolocations.

> for more about [geolocation](../../proto/lavanet/lava/plans/plan.proto)

Reviewer: Put "." in the end of sentences

Author: done

> for more information about delegation, go to dualstaking README.md

Reviewer: link to readme?

Author: done

### EndPoint

Endpoint is a struct that describes how to connect and receive services from the provider for the specific interface and geolocation

```go
type Endpoint struct {
	IPPORT        string   // the ip and port where the consumer can access the provider
	Geolocation   int32    // the geolocation of the endpoint
	Addons        []string // the supported addons of the endpoint
	ApiInterfaces []string // the supported interfaces by the enpoint
	Extensions    []string // the supported extensions of the endpoint
}
```

> for more info on `Addons` and `Extensions` look at the spec module README.md

Reviewer: link to readme?

Author: done

## Parameters

The epochstorage parameters:

| Key                                    | Type                    | Default Value    |
| -------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | -----------------|
| EpochBlocks                            | uint64                  | 30               |
| EpochsToSave                           | uint64                  | 20               |

> | LatestParamChange                      | uint64                  | NA               |

Reviewer: NA -> N/A

Author: done

> `EpochBlocks` determines the amount of blocks for each epoch

Reviewer: put extra new line to make the sentences not appear right after another. Also, put "." on the end of sentences

Author: done

Reviewer: I meant between EpochBlocks line, EpochsToSave line and LatestParamChange line. The problem is that if you look at how the readme is generated, those lines come one after another without new lines at all (to indicate new line in markdown, you need to put double space)

Author: got it, done
